Nagisa... let me be the
first to get your autograph!
What doting parents...
Sure, you may laugh now,
but if you have a daughter,
you'll be the same way.
No way, old man, that's gross.
I dunno, I think he may
be right, Tomoya.
You're just like Dad, after all.
No way, man, that's gross!
[Akio]: Two months, huh?
Yep, I'm two months along.
You're gonna have it, right?
Of course I am.
It's gonna be tough.
I'm here to protect her.
Huh?
That's right, I don't have to
worry as long as I have Tomoya.
We've made it this far by
working together, haven't we?
It's funny how much Tomoya
reminds me of you, Akio.
Wha-?
[Sanae]: When we found out
I was pregnant with Nagisa,
you said the exact
same thing, remember?
You promised to protect her...
[Akio]: I did say
that, didn't I?
Hang in there, you little
good-for-nothing bum!
[Tomoya]:
"Good-for-nothing," huh?
I can't afford to
be like that now.
Nagisa will have to
take time off from work...
Who knows if she'll
ever go back.
It'll be up to me
to support all three of us.
This is it... we're
becoming a real family now.
All this has got me
thinking, though...
Is this the way my father felt
before I was born?
[Yoshino]: Congratulations.
What?
[Yoshino]: What do you mean
what? I heard about the baby.
[Young Staffer]: Baby?
[Staffer]: Your wife had a baby?
I didn't know!
[Johnny]: Oh wow,
congratulations, Mr. Okazaki!
[Tomoya]: No, uh... she
hasn't had the baby just yet.
[Tomoya]: Who did you hear that
from, Yoshino?
Sanae told Kouko,
then Kouko told me.
And by now, I'm sure all
of our neighbors know, too.
Never underestimate
the power of gossip.
Even though you have a job,
you're still growing up
in a lot of ways... and now
that you're about to be a dad,
I'm afraid you're gonna
have to grow up a lot faster.
Uh, yeah...
It's kinda sudden, I need
some time to let it sink in.
Once your child is born,
I'm sure you'll understand
whether you want to or not.
We humans are strange beings.
Not one of us
can live on our own.
@And yet, young or old, we're
all able to get through life
by giving and receiving
support from others.
[Yoshino]: 4.5 billion years
ago, the Earth was born in a
small corner
of this vast universe...
[Tomoya]: Before I knew it,
several weeks had passed.
As Nagisa entered
her third month,
her morning sickness got worse.
And she spent
a lot of time in bed.
Sorry, Tomoya. I hate to trouble
you with all this stuff...
Don't worry about it.
It only takes a few minutes;
It's no trouble at all.
I'm still sorry.
Nothing to apologize for.
We work together on
everything, remember?
Have you had a chance
to eat anything today?
Yeah, but I didn't have
much of an appetite.
Is there some medicine
that would help,
or that sort of thing?
Not when it comes to morning
sickness,
but there are things you
can do to help with the nausea.
I get sick just drinking water,
so I have to get my fluids
with ice cubes.
Oh, wow, it's cold.
Ah, sorry. Didn't mean to
wake you up. You feeling okay?
Not too bad, I guess.
@Good to hear.
@Even if it's justúa little bit,
@you should try
toúeat when you can.
@Open wide.
You had to make dinner
all by yourself, didn't you?
@Oh, you could tell? Guessúthey
aren't very pretty, huh?
I don't care what they look
like. Let me give it a try.
Thanks, it's good!
[Tomoya]:
One again, time flew by.
I was so wrapped up
in my daily life with Nagisa
that I hardly even noticed.
[Nagisa]: Good morning!
You sure you should
be out of bed?
@I'm fine; I'm actuallyúfeeling
a lot better today.
@The last time I
wentúto the doctor,
@he said things
shouldústart settling down
@around the tenth week.
@It looks likeúhe was right!
Everything's going
according to plan, huh?
Uh-huh! No complaints from me!
I, uh... I need
to ask you something.
[Tomoya]: Home birth?
@Yeah, actually, I wasúthinking
about giving birth
@right hereúin this room.
Wow, you can really
do something like that?
@Yesterday, when I
wasúat the hospital,
@I picked up this brochureúfor
a maternity class.
@It has an article about
mothersúwho gave birth at home
@and I thought I'd
likeúto do that!
After the mother gives birth,
the father steps in
to give the child
its first bath...
If you have your baby
like normal at the hospital,
you might not get to spend
much time with it
right after it's born. That's
why I thought it might be nice
if we did it this way instead.
Hmmm...
This is our home, so I thought
we should start our family here.
I'd like to have my baby in
my own town, in my own room...
where I belong.
Do you think we could do that?
She wants to give
birth at home?!
@Heh. How'd you like
myúcornering back there?
Could you turn that off, please?
I dunno, kid. Giving birth
is enough trouble as it is.
@Doing it at home is
justúgonna complicate things,
@don't you think?
Yeah, I know what you mean;
The doctor said he was worried
about Nagisa's health.
Still, she's seems
really set on it,
so I'd like to do it if we can.
I mean, assuming it doesn't put
her health at risk, of course.
@[Sanae]ÚI agree.
@You have to consider
safetyúfirst, for Nagisa AND the
baby.
@But still... I see why
youúwould to have the baby at
home.
@The nurse took Nagisa awayúfrom
me as soon as she was born.
@Of course, Akio got to hold
herúa little bit later...
@but that was only after
theúhospital staff said it was
okay.
They might've got the first
touch but I got the first lick!
Really Dad? You licked
me after I was born?
@It's your fault for beingúso
cute; I couldn't resist!
I don't care how cute I was,
you shouldn't do that!
@[laughs]úOh well, too late now.
Anyway, do you agree
with the home birth idea?
I'm okay with it, as long
as Nagisa's healthy enough.
When the baby's born...
you can hold it.
But lemme warn you...
I'm gonna be the first to
lick that baby, you hear me?!
Nuh-uh, dad!
Tomoya's the father,
so he gets the first lick!
Actually, I think I'll pass.
You don't want to?
Then dad it is...
@[laughs]
[Tomoya]:
Wow, you two are some pair...
[Sanae]: This is my friend Yagi.
@She works as a midwife,
@so I thought she mightúbe
able to talk to you
@about the home birth.
Nice to meet you.
I hope I can help out.
Hello, I'm Nagisa Okazaki.
Thanks for taking
the time to stop by.
Hi, I'm her husband, Tomoya.
Your mother tells me
you'd like to give birth
here in your apartment.
Yes ma'am.
I know it's a little run down,
but do you think
it'd be possible?
As long as it's a relaxing
environment, it's fine.
But you still have plenty
of time to think it over.
[Yagi]: I'll go through all
of your options with you
some other time.
We look forward to
working with you, ma'am.
[Yagi]: If anything new happens,
please don't hesitate to contact
me.
[Nagisa]:
Thank you, ma'am. I will.
I let Yagi know that Nagisa
has health problems
before we came by.
She said not to
talk about it too much,
or it'll just make
Nagisa anxious,
regardless of if you go
with a home birth or not.
All right,
I'll keep that in mind.
Hey, Tomoya? What were you
talking to Mom about just now?
Huh? Oh, uh, nothing really.
It's all right, you don't
have to hide it or anything.
You two were talking
about my health, right?
I understand that you
and my parents are worried,
since I'm sure the delivery
is going to be tough on me...
but... even if something
bad happens to me,
the only thing I want is to
give birth to a healthy baby.
C'mon, Don't say
stuff like that!
Listen, everyone's
working together because
we want you to have
a safe delivery.
I should've thought of that.
I'm sorry, Tomoya.
@You know, this really reminds
meúof when we were in high
school.
Huh?
@I mean, back when the drama
clubúwas working so hard
@so you could put on
yourúplay for the festival.
[Tomoya]: Let's hope this
turns out just as well!
[Akio]: Do you know who I am?
I'm your Daddy! [Laughs]
@Don't lie to the baby, dad!
You're gonna confuse it
before it's even born!
@Wow, what a lame baby; It
can'túeven take a little joke?
It's Nagisa's baby, isn't it?
Of course it can't
take a joke... Grandpa.
DAMN IT, DON'T YOU EVER
CALL ME THAT AGAIN!
Oh, right. Akio wants
to be called, "Akki"
when the baby's born.
@"Akki," you got it? "Akki"!
No more prenatal education!
I know Akio is just joking,
but by this point,
your baby's ears have
probably developed enough
to hear outside sounds.
You might want to consider
playing some music
for it sometime.
Oh, music's no problem;
I sing to it all the time.
@♪Dango, Dango, Dango, Dango,
Dango, Dango Family. ♪
♪ Dango, Dango, Dango, Dango
Dango, Dango Family... ♪
[Tomoya]: At the time...
I thought everything
was going to work out perfectly.
Well... that's what
I said at least...
but somewhere in my heart...
I knew that wasn't true.
Hey, I'm home.
Nagisa!
Don't worry, I'm fine. I just
feel a little weak, that's all.
Nagisa gave me a call a
while ago and I rushed over.
By the time I got here,
she'd apparently collapsed
on the floor.
If something bad happened,
then you should've told me!
Sorry Tomoya... I didn't
want to bother you
while you were at
work, that's all.
At any rate, don't worry.
The baby is still as
healthy as can be.
[sighs] Well, that's good...
Don't be afraid to call me
if anything else happens.
@Just to be (extra)
careful, ústarting tomorrow,
@I'll look after Nagisaú
til you get off of work.
@That should take a
littleústress off of you, right?
Yes ma'am.
I really appreciate it.
@How are you feeling?úls
there anything you want?
No, I have everything I need.
As long as I have you with me,
then there's nothing
to worry about.
You're tough, aren't you? Well,
I'll try not to worry, myself.
Don't be afraid, Tomoya,
everything's gonna be fine.
Yeah. You're right, of course.
Whatever happens, we can
get through it together.
And besides, how can I worry
when I have you to protect me?
Nagisa...
[Tomoya]ÚEven though she said
that... everything had changed.
@I couldn't pretend to
beúas happy as I was before.
[Sanae]: Tomoya.
Oh. Hey, Sanae.
So, how was your day?
[Sanae]: This is where
Nagisa used to work? I see!
I always wanted to come here,
but never found the time.
It's a pretty groovy
place, isn't it?
You're slang's a little off.
Huh? Well, now I feel old.
[slight chuckle]
There's something I need
to talk to you about.
Yeah?
It's about Nagisa and the baby.
I spoke with her doctor
the other day
and he said there may be some
risks we didn't know about
when she gives birth.
And just for the record,
I haven't told Nagisa yet.
The doctor told me in private,
but you should know, too.
You say some risks, but what
exactly do you mean by that?
Are you saying that
Nagisa might die?
I'm not sure; They said the
burden placed on her body
will be a little greater
than a normal delivery.
But that's speaking for Nagisa,
the childbirth itself
should be unaffected.
I see...
Of course, that's assuming
Nagisa' health stays stable
for the delivery.
As you know, her condition
gets worse sometimes.
That could be a serious
factor in this as well.
To be honest, we don't know
much about Nagisa's illness,
so it's hard to predict.
[Sanae]: I think the doctor was
worried about a worst-case
scenario,
but we should be ready
for anything.
It's hard to say
what's the right choice
and what's the wrong choice
in this situation.
That's why I wanted to go
over things with you first;
So you could give it some
careful consideration.
Take some time and talk
to Nagisa about it.
Once you've discussed
the situation,
you can talk to
the doctor together.
Then we can all make a decision
together as a family.
Considering the
worst-case scenario...
do you think we should give up
on having a baby, now?
I'm afraid that isn't
my place to say.
However... if you go that route,
you should do it as
quickly as you can.
[Sanae]: I want you two to
really think about this.
[Tomoya]: Thanks for caring
for us so much, Sanae.
It really means a lot.
We're a family, after all.
I'm sorry. I still
want to have the baby.
No, it's fine; I had a
feeling you'd say that.
I know I'm weak and this
could be a risk for me...
but I don't want to rob
my child of a chance at life
because of that.
So if it's safer to have a
delivery at the hospital...
then I don't mind giving up
on the home birth.
Nagisa...
Tomoya... I want to see
our child, no matter what.
[Akio]:
So, what did the doctor say?
He said she would
have fewer risks
if she gave birth
at the hospital.
I guess that's a relief,
but I'm still worried about it.
I take it Nagisa hasn't changed
her mind on the issue, then?
No.
[Tomoya]ÚI think she's pretty
scared@about this whole thing,
though.
She tries to act
like she's happy,
but she probably feels
the same way I do.
All right. Come with me.
Here you go, my secret hideout
in all its glory.
I come here to play baseball
with the kids...
or just space out
and spend some time alone.
[Tomoya]: I get it. So all those
times you disappeared from work,
this is where you came.
Not quite what I expected.
[Akio]: They've been cutting
down the trees bit by bit.
Sooner or later...,
They're gonna build
a hospital here.
Anyway, that's not the point.
Remember that story I
told you two years ago?
When I was in the
theater troupe, I mean.
Back when Sanae was a teacher,
before we had the bakery.
[Akio]: Like I told you before,
Nagisa ended up staying by
herself
a lot during that time.
On that particular day,
Sanae had to go to work and we
ended up leaving Nagisa home
with a fever.
Of course, we tried
to get off work,
but it just didn't work out.
When we left her, Nagisa's
condition was stable,
so we hoped we'd get back
before anything bad happened.
Unfortunately,
Nagisa went outside,
waiting for us to come home.
We found her collapsed in
the snow when we came back.
By dawn, things were
looking pretty grim.
I didn't even know that kind
of sadness was possible.
What I'm about to tell you now
I've never told
anyone but Sanae.
Before I knew it,
I was running and running
with Nagisa in my arms.
I don't know what I was
doing or where I was going,
but somehow I ended up here.
I fell to my knees and prayed.
Please help Nagisa.
I don't want her
to die like this.
That was all I could do.
That was my only hope.
Then, all of a sudden it was
like the grass and the trees
and the sun enveloped Nagisa
with this warm light.
It seemed like
a dream at first...
but it couldn't be...
it had to be real.
Tears welled up
in my eyes, and I swear,
I've never been so grateful
in my entire life.
Ever since then... I've tried
to keep an eye on this place.
I almost feel like
it's another part of Nagisa.
It's a strange story, huh?
But I'm telling you,
it really happened
just like that.
Yeah. I believe you.
Course that doesn't mean
you can pray and magically have
all your wishes come true.
But still... I think
if you push and shove
with all you got until
the bitter end...
even if it ain't a miracle, the
results won't be all that bad.
Yeah, you're probably right.
Now, I'm not saying she
should have the baby.
But Nagisa has the most to lose,
so she should decide.
And whatever her decision is,
we should all shut up
and accept it.
Y'know, kid... I mean, Tomoya...
I hate to say it, but I got
a feeling you got a lot of
hardship and a lot of
sadness ahead of you.
But together, you two...
or rather, all of us...
should be able to overcome it.
Yeah.
Remember, we're family, now.
We're here to help
each other out.
[Nagisa]: I love the breeze.
It feels so nice and cool.
[gasps] The baby just moved!
Whoa, really?!
Yeah.
It's a weird feeling, like
it's sliding around in there.
No kidding?
Guess we'd better come up
with a name, huh?
Yeah. I haven't
thought about it much,
but we need a boys name
and a girls name, don't we?
Either way, how bout
we take a character
from your name, Tomoya?
Nah. It doesn't matter to me.
Besides, it'll have
my last name either way.
Let's take something from your
name, instead, how bout that?
But... my name's kinda
hard to work with,
so it'll end up sounding silly.
@Like Nagisako or Nagisami
or something like that.
Well, okay, Nagisa
means shore, right?
So how bout we think of a
name that has an ocean theme?
Oh, good idea.
In that case, how bout...
Ushio. We can use
the character for tide.
Ushio?
Yep. Strong and fearless,
the rising and falling
ocean waves... the endless
ebb and flow of the tide.
Perfect, right?
And best of all, it works
whether it's a girl or a boy.
So it's, Ushio...
Okazaki, huh?
@A lot of things happen in life;
Some of them good
and some of them bad...
but... no matter what,
@the tide will always come
backúto the shores, again and
again.
And so, I'll stand by,
watching...
just as the shores watch
the tide come and go.
So you're saying
the tides are bigger
and stronger than the shore?
Of course. They travel
the whole ocean.
And like the ocean...
I hope our child
isn't just strong...
I hope it's as kind and
nurturing as the deepest waters.
Don't you agree?
Yeah, I hope so, too.
@We couldn't go to the
beachúthis summer after all,
huh?
I know. It's a shame, isn't it?
I really wanted to go
to the beach with you.
All right, then
let's make a promise.
[Nagisa]: A promise?
Yeah. We're going to come to
the beach with Ushio next year
no matter what.
It's a promise.
A promise...,
Uh-huh. You promise,
right... Nagisa?
Yeah, of course. I promise...
[Kotomi]: I've been talking
about one Hidden World,
but there may be any number
of them out there.
In fact, there may be
as many worlds
as there are possibilities
in our lives.
[Tomoya]: Fujibayashi, you said
something like that a long time
ago
when you were telling
our fortunes, right?
[Ryou]: Right. The future
isn't something predetermined,
there are all sorts of
possibilities out there.
I still believe that.